So we're able to retrieve the city name but we also need to be able to get the weather.
Now the good thing is there is a service called openweathermap.org,
it's free to use but you have to sign up in order to get your API key which you need in order to access
their API.
Then if you click on API, you can have a look at the documentation, we need the very first API here, current
weather data
and here you'll find a documentation how you were able to fetch weatherData.
We'll use the simple API call here where we can pass a city name and then we'll get back the weather
for that city.
Now as I mentioned, in order to successfully send request there, you need to sign up for free
and if you sign up, in your dashboard, you'll have this API keys part here where you see a key.
Now it's blurred out here because it's my key
but you will just copy that key
and later I'll come back to that and actually append this key to my API calls to be able to successfully
get weather data but back to the API,
as I said this will be the link we'll access. So back over in plnkr,
it's time to set up this HTTP request to actually get weather data from there.
So I am able to extract the city name of course, from search city values, I'll store this in a new variable
called cityName, the value I just logged to the console
and of course I also want to reach out to the web.
So I'll set up a new HTTP request, a new XML HTTP request and I'll store my API key here, later on here,
I'm not inserting it now because I'll blur it out anyways but you may already copy your API key into
here, the one you saw in your open weather map dashboard, then I'll set up the URL which I
want to access and we can get this URL from the API docs.
It's this URL here, however very important, make sure to place HTTP in front of it,
it's not inserted in the link
you're able to grab here.
And of course city name here should go away,
we'll leave the question mark
q equals but then I'll add something to that string with a plus sign here, I'll the
city name which we actually extract up here, so the city name we extracted from our input.
Now we can do something here,
we can also check if city name length is greater or is let's say equal to zero, which means the user
hasn't entered anything.
In this case, we could return an alert, so we return a quit out of this function and alert
please enter a city name.
So if we try this and if I now hit show weather, we get this alert.
However if I enter one single space, it would work and that is certainly not what we want.
So instead, I'll use the
trim function here on city name,
.trim and
now if I enter some whitespaces, I still get the error because all these extra whitespaces will
be trimmed out.
So that works
but as soon as I enter something else, I'm allowed to pass.
So we set up the URL and the city name and we make sure that the city name is actually set
and the last thing I want to set up is the method and this will be a get request because we want to
get data
and we only can send a get request to this route here anyways.
With that, I can open the connection and I pass my method and URL to the HTTP request and then I'll
set up
the event handler, onreadystatechange to do something if the onreadystatechange is of my HTTP request
here.
So then I want to execute this function
and in this function here,
I'll first change if my ready state equals XMLHttpRequest.DONE
and if the status is 200, of course with more than one equal sign here and if this is the case, I know we
got back an answer and it seem to be successful,
so we probably get back some weather data.
I'll handle this case soon,
otherwise if the ready state is done but we didn't get 200 as a code, we know something went wrong. In
this case,
I'll also show an alert where I just say something went wrong.
So that's the bad case,
we had an error and that's a good case
and before I add the HTTP send method here,
I of course want to implement what I want to do if we get back some data.
However that is a bit more complicated but I want to do something special here.
Let's have a look at this next lecture.